Okay in the last lecture we have been talking about the abstract mathematical model behind nave based
classifier So let's see a concrete illustration.
We have two classes.
The yellow class and the green class with lots of lots of data samples as you can see and of course
the aim is to be able to classify a new sample as you can see this dog with the question mark.
The aim of the algorithm is to decide whether it's going to belong to the yellow class or to the green
class.
So first of all let's calculate the probabilities of the given classes.
OK.
So in this case we have two classes.
Basically these are C K Klaas's K is equal to two.
In this case because we have a green class and a yellow class so C one is the yellow class for example
and C is the green class and the X parameters are the features.
In this case we have two features because we are dealing with points on a two dimensional plane.
So we have x1 and x2 features one for the X scored and at and the second for the y coordinate.
OK so what's the probability of the yellow class.
What do we have to do.
We have to calculate the yellow dots.
There are seven yellow dots and we have to calculate the dots all together.
There are 17 dots which means that we have 17 data samples in the training data set.
So basically it is the probability that if we pick a Daut at random it's going to have the color yellow.
What about the green one.
We have to calculate the green dots.
There are 10 green dots and we have two divided by the number of samples which is 17.
So it means the probability that if we pick a door at random its color is going to be green.
OK so first of all we have to calculate the probabilities of the classes.
Dan we have to consider the neighboring items and we have to calculate the probability that if we have
this news sample who read all the neighboring items was the probability it's going to be green.
There are three green dots within the neighborhood and how many green dots are there all together.
So three dots in the neighborhood and all together we have 10 green dots.
We have to do the same for the yellow dots.
There's just a single yellow dot in the neighborhood and how many yellow dots are there all together.
One two three four five six seven.
So that's why we divide by seven and if we want to calculate the probability that the new sample belongs
to the Greenglass we just have to multiply the probability of the green class by the probability that
the new sample belongs to the green class.
OK 10 divide by 17 times three.
Divide by 10.
It is ECOs 230 divided by 170.
What about the probability that the new sample belongs to the yellow Clauss is a probability of the
yellow class times the probability that the new sample belongs to the yellow class based on the neighboring
items 7 divide by 17 times 1 divide by 7 which is equal to 7 divide by one hundred and nineteen.
OK so we have calculated these values.
What do we have to do now.
Based classifier is going to choose the S.K. class with the highest probability.
OK so the highest value is Surt they divided by one hundred and seventy which means that the new sample
according to the knave based classifier belongs to the green class.
So as far as regression problems are concerned we have defined the optimal be Peramivir is real.
Gradient descent or maximum likelihood estimator.
Here For now the base classifier we are dealing with probabilities and basically fitting the model means
finding the given probabilities in order to be able to classify new samples such as in this case.
OK so this is how naive basic classifier works.
Thanks for watching.